Usage in components.
For state we'd say
this.store.state.nameofthing.
So this is a read, so we can actually
just access the state directly.
We can access getters directly.
We could say
this.store.getters.nameofthing.
For mutations, we would say
this.store.commit.nameofthing,
just like we just did in that action.
So if we were in a method, and don't
worry, we'll do this in a method in just
a second,
we can call a mutation from a component.
And we can access it that way.
Actions are also write,
this.store.dispatch.nameofthing.
So if we wanted to show this in a
component, typically what you would do is,
you'd use it in a computed property.
And the reason why is, we're really trying
to use this as efficiently as possible and
we wanna cache this and not update
it until the dependency is changed.
So computed properties are really good for
this.
So in the computed properties we would
say count is this.$store.state.count.
Triple counter is
this.$store.getters.tripleCounter.
In methods, if I went and
clicked a button and
I wanted something to fire in the store
I would say, add click increment.
It would call this increment and
we'd say this.store.commit, increment and
pass in something.
Same with asyncIncrement,
this.store.dispatch, asyncIncrement.
And move that forward.
So in the repo, you have
an application that's set up for you.
And it's called vuex-example, and it does
this, what it's showing on the page.
So we have the state from the store.
We have a getter from the triple
counter from the store.
Let's increment two from a mutation, let's
increment by two with an action async.
And what I've done here is I've
moved each type of these things
into its own component, so
that you can see them separately.
So you can see a getter by itself,
you can see a mutation by itself.
So if you go into vuex-example,
and in that source
you can see a store that looks just like
what we just showed in that last slide.
And then if you go back to the components,
you can see AppGetter,
AppMutation and AppAction, and
I'll walk you through each one of them.
So in the store, it's what we just
talked about with the state.counter.
In the main app, we've got
the state from the store is state.
And we have, as a computed property,
state return this.$store.state.counter.
I could have also called this counter,
and then this would be called counter.
So that's how I would use state directly.
I'm also importing these components,
Getter, Mutation and Action.
And then I call them above, Getter,
Mutation, Action, I put them on the page.
So here's the Getter.
I say the Getter for the triple counter
from the store is triple in computed,
I say triple, and I say return
this.$store.getters.tripleCounter.
And, remember,
that's corresponding to this in store.js,
getters, tripleCounter,
return state.counter.
A mutation, I say,
let's increment by one with a mutation and
I have at-click increments.
And in my methods I have increments,
and I say, this.$store.commit,
increment, I'm passing a payload of 1.
So here that payload is represented
by num, I say state.counter.
So anytime I click this button,
its gonna call this method
that commits this mutation.
So that's how I'm changing
things in the store.
I'm able to change things in
the store from the components.
If I wanted to dispatch an action,
it's the same.
I can say a button at click,
and I have async increments.
So wait a second and add 10.
It will say this.$store.dispatch and
pass in a parameter of 10.
And if we look at the actions,
it's incrementAsync.
And we said, we're passing in the number,
we're waiting for a second and
we're gonna commit that increment
that you saw before in the mutation.
There's shortcuts all over the place vuex.
This is a shortcut that I really like.
It's called mapState, or you could
say map getters or map actions or
any of those things.
So you can use this thing called
import mapState from vuex, and
then you spread mapState.
And now I can go grab all
the state from the store.
I don't have to say, count,
return this.$store.state.count,
posts, return this.store in our computed.
I can just say,
get the count, get the post,
get the items and
map them to count, post, items.
And then I can use them directly.
So using mapState can really
help because you're just like,
I probably need a couple
of things from the store.
I'm just going to use them really fast.
So, that's one way of doing that.
So this still allows us to make our
own computed properties if we wish to.